As I mentioned, it would be nice to have some error message when we're, well getting an error
and for that, we can use an @angular/material component,
of course you could build something similar on your own.
There we have a component, the dialog component,
we find it here under pop-ups and modals.
There we get that dialog which really looks like that, we can show our own message here in the middle
of the screen and you could of course create your own modal, any div with some content, some backdrop
and attach both conditionally with ngIf or well, use this solution here
which we will use in this course.
So how does this work?
We can inspect the source code and there, the typescript code is the interesting part.
This dialog component here happens to work programmatically,
we open a dialog by using the dialog service provided by Angular material and we actually pass in a
component reference which will be rendered inside of that dialog which is opened.
Now that is a bit of a more advanced solution here, rendering a component dynamically.
The easy solution would be as I just mentioned to really just add some div,
maybe in the app component and then use ngIf combined with some error condition to show or hide this.
So let's use that dialog though and let me show you how to generally handle errors and show and hide
something if we got an error. For that,
I want to register a global error handler and since our errors are related to HTTP errors, I want to use
my interceptor again. This auth-interceptor here is used to, well intercept all outgoing requests and
add the auth header. We can add another interceptor
and I will add it here in my root folder since it will affect the entire app, I will add my error
interceptor file,
so error.interceptor.ts.
Now keep in mind, we got the auth-interceptor and there, we used the dash
so let's use one here too, error-interceptor
and now here, I will create an interceptor just as I did it for auth.
So let's copy the entire auth-interceptor code and let's put it into the error-interceptor.
I won't need the auth service though,
so no need to inject it,
no need for injectable then because we're not injecting a service here right now and therefore, we can
also remove the injectable input here. And now in the intercept method,
I just want to return next händler request
but now we can actually also listen to the response there.
I don't want to edit the request,
I want to listen to the response and handle actually gives us back the response observable stream and
we can just hook into that stream and listen to events and we can use the pipe method provided by
rxjs
to add an operator to that stream and I want to add a special operator, the catch error operator which
you need to import from rxjs/operators. Catch error as the name suggests is an operator
that allows us to handle errors emitted in this stream
and since this is for an HTTP request, we'll be talking about HTTP errors.
Here we have to pass a function where we will get our error, which will be of type HTTP error
response which you can import from @angular/common/http
and then we can of course console log it for example.
Now we can do that
but one thing we absolutely have to do here is we have to keep in mind that we're just adding something
to that observable stream.
We're finally handling it in different places of our app, in the post service where we subscribe, in the
auth service where we subscribe to our requests.
So we absolutely have to return an observable here inside of catch error, even if we had an error and
we can just use throwError for this, a method which we import directly from rxjs and this
will generate a new observable to which we can just pass that error and now we just return that
observable here.
So now we're just returning that observable with the error
but we can do some error handling here and
for example, we can also alert to throw a normal javascript alert, error
and on that error object, we actually have an error property which will be the response body of the error
request or of the error response I should say
and there we could output the message and hope to have one, we'll refine this later.
So now we can register this interceptor in our app module where we also register the auth-interceptor by
copying this provider.
Same token, also use multi
but here we use the error interceptor and for that, I need to rename that class first.
So in the error-interceptor file, this is now the error-interceptor class.
Now we can use that in app module, here error-interceptor.
We also need to import this,
so at the top, we import error interceptor from ./error-interceptor, so from that file we
just created.
Now every outgoing HTTP request will have this interceptor attached to it
and if I recompile this, strange error is also gone.
So now every outgoing HTTP request will be watched by this and if we get back an error response, this
interceptor should kick in.
So let's give this a try,
we're not using that material dialog yet
but let's give this a try on the sign-up page again.
If I do enter an e-mail address which is already taken and I hit sign-up, we get back an alert with
undefined because we don't have a message here as it seems
but we see that the interceptor is doing something and we also see the log from inside the interceptor
here.
There we can see the error response we're getting, that's the response body
and there, we actually have a message field, so error, error message should actually yield something.
Now though
I see because of the error we're getting back from the server which is automatically generated by our
Mongoose unique validator,
we have another level of error in there and that's really just because that Mongoose unique validator
adds another error object nested in there,
so it's error.error.error.message.
Yes, that is really weird
but now we would actually be able to see something here.
Now we get user validation failed, email error expected email to be unique.
Now that is not a message I want to show anyways and that is one of the rare cases where we have this
extra level of nesting,
so let's ignore it for now
but you see that we can actually access error information and that we have an error object which actually
holds the response and we can access the response body on that nested error object
and as you saw in the log, we also got other things like the exact status code we're getting and so on.
So this can really help you handling your errors.
Now that we added this interceptor,
let's use it and add something better than this boring alert in the next lecture.